---
layout: post
title: Product notes on managing APIs
description:
summary:
tags: strategy
minute: 1
---

You might have experience managing APIs. Management may not.

Why is this worth calling out? While obviously many product management concepts translate to technical products, there are some aspects to APIs that may not be as obvious to others as they are to you. At healthy product-led organizations, APIs are borne of careful product strategy in opening up a technical platform and expanding the addressable use cases through integrations. But product is different in every organization. Integrations may be borne out of business partnership opportunities, where product impact is addressed after the fact.

As a product manager, it's your job to identify and adjust accordingly.

Management's focus: For the Business Partnership to be successful, the integration needs to be available.
Your focus: the API is an open sandbox for other developers to programmatically manipulate data and processes in our system, which can impact how the user interacts with the product, the customer onboarding journey, and customer support, ultimately bringing more value to our respective products and our mutual customers. We're building tools for a 3rd party to manipulate data in our system.

Speed is important, but the cost of "moving fast and breaking things" for APIs is slightly higher than average. Let speed be a driving force in decision making, but enable that velocity with laser focus. Developers are used to making square pegs fit round holes, but if the pegs and holes keep changing, nobody wins. Ideally, no integration tax is incurred in the development process. If you're not careful, one side may be paying a tax that the other side has no responsibility for. Balancing flexibility and control is imperative, and the tradeoffs can often be overlooked if not highlighted by a requirement. 
